Add concepts page on Pod disruptions (#454)
stackabletech/documentation: modules/concepts/pages/operations/index.adoc

= Operations

> This section of the documentation is intended for the operations teams, that maintain and take care of a Stackable Data Platform installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section of the documentation is intended for the operations teams that maintain a Stackable Data Platform installation.
```

> It provides you with the needed details to operate it in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It provides you with the necessary details to operate it in a production environment.
```

== Service availability

> Make sure to go throw the following checklist to make sure you achieve the maximum level of availability for your services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to go through the following checklist to achieve the maximum level of availability for your services.
```

1. Make setup highly available (HA): In case the product supports running in an HA fashion, our operators will automatically

>    configure it for you. You only need to take sure that you deploy a sufficient number of replicas. Please note, that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   configure it for you. You only need to make sure that you deploy a sufficient number of replicas. Please note that
```

   some products don't support HA.
2. Reduce the number of simultaneous pod disruptions (unavailable replicas). The Stackable operators write defaults
   based upon knowledge about the fault tolerance of the product, which should cover most of the use-cases. For details
   have a look at xref:operations/pod_disruptions.adoc[].
3. Reduce impact of pod disruption: Many HA capable products offer a way to gracefully shut down the service running

>    within the Pod. The flow is, that Kubernetes wants to shut down the Pod and calls a hook into the Pod, which in turn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   within the Pod. The flow is as follows: Kubernetes wants to shut down the Pod and calls a hook into the Pod, which in turn
```

>    interacts with the product, telling it to gracefully shut down. The final deletion of the Pod is than blocked until

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   interacts with the product, telling it to gracefully shut down. The final deletion of the Pod is then blocked until
```

>    the product has successfully migrated running workloads off of the Pod that get's shut down. Details of the actual graceful shutdown mechanism is described in the actual operator documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the product has successfully migrated running workloads away from the Pod that is to be shut down. Details covering the graceful shutdown mechanism are described in the actual operator documentation.
```

+

> WARNING: Graceful shutdown is not implemented for all products yet. Please check the documentation on the product operator to see if it is supported for that specific product (such as e.g. xref:trino:usage_guide/operations/graceful-shutdown.adoc[the documentation for Trino].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: Graceful shutdown is not implemented for all products yet. Please check the documentation specific to the product operator to see if it is supported (such as e.g. xref:trino:usage_guide/operations/graceful-shutdown.adoc[the documentation for Trino].
```

> 4. Spread workload across multiple Kubernetes nodes, racks, datacenter rooms or datacenters to guaranteed availability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Spread workload across multiple Kubernetes nodes, racks, datacenter rooms or datacenters to guarantee availability
```

   in the case of e.g. power outages or fire in parts of the datacenter. All of this is supported by
   configuring an https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/[antiAffinity] as documented in
   xref:operations/pod_placement.adoc[]

== Maintenance actions

Sometimes you want to quickly shut down a product or update the Stackable operators without all the managed products
restarting at the same time. You can achieve this using the following methods:

1. Quickly stop and start a whole product using `stopped` as described in xref:operations/cluster_operations.adoc[].

> 2. Prevent any changed to your deployed product using `reconcilePaused` as described in xref:operations/cluster_operations.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Prevent any changes to your deployed product using `reconcilePaused` as described in xref:operations/cluster_operations.adoc[].
```

== Performance

1. You can configure the available resource every product has using xref:concepts:resources.adoc[]. The defaults are
   very restrained, as you should be able to spin up multiple products running on your Laptop.

> 2. You can not only use xref:operations/pod_placement.adoc[] to achieve more resilience, but also co-locate products

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. You can not only use xref:operations/pod_placement.adoc[] to achieve more resilience, but also to co-locate products
```

   that communicate frequently with each other. One example is placing HBase regionservers on the same Kubernetes node
   as the HDFS datanodes. Our operators already take this into account and co-locate connected services. However, if

>    you are not satisfied of the automatically created affinities you can use ref:operations/pod_placement.adoc[] to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   you are not satisfied with the automatically created affinities you can use ref:operations/pod_placement.adoc[] to
```

   configure your own.
3. If you want to have certain services running on dedicated nodes you can also use xref:operations/pod_placement.adoc[]
   to force the Pods to be scheduled on certain nodes. This is especially helpful if you e.g. have Kubernetes nodes with

>    16 cores and 64 GB, as you could allocated nearly 100% of this node resources to your Spark executors or Trino workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   16 cores and 64 GB, as you could allocate nearly 100% of these node resources to your Spark executors or Trino workers.
```

   In this case it is important that you https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/taint-and-toleration/[taint]

>    you Kubernetes nodes and use xref:overrides.adoc#pod-overrides[podOverrides] to add a `toleration` for the taint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   your Kubernetes nodes and use xref:overrides.adoc#pod-overrides[podOverrides] to add a `toleration` for the taint.
```
